---
layout: post
title:  "Show"
permalink: /show
---

I was out for drinks with friends recently when one of the more boisterous of the group, pint of cider in hand, asked me "when you get to the end of your dry year, what will you have to show for it?" I prematurely responded with "I'll have done the 70.3...", to which he replied "What, you couldn't have done that anyway?"

In his opinion I could just as easily achieve whatever it is I set out to this year with alcohol.

But the fact of the matter is, I haven't. With alcohol, I'd be waking up on Saturday and Sunday mornings with a banging headache, feeling utterly wiped out, wanting the kids to leave me alone, just trying to get through the day so at the end of it I could order some shit takeaway, sit down on the couch, and fall asleep to some waste-of-time movie. I'd then tell myself I'll hit the training hard next week 

The same guy has all the best intentions to get his home gym set up with boxing bags, foam matting, a television and network setup so that workouts can be streamed. But he can't start until the TV and network are finished. And here we are some X months later and I'm not sure he's even used it yet. And he's joined PureGym and goes to classes once in a while... 

But you know what, I'm not criticising. I'm just pointing out that I've been there. I've had all the good intentions. I've said enough is enough, and hit the workouts hard and got a bit fit and seen some changes. But then I'll have a few big nights out and miss a week or two. I'll lose motivation and lose sight of what it was I'd set out to achieve. And the cycle will continue, like it has done for the last 22+ years. Who knows what I would have been able to achieve in those 22 years without the effects of alcohol. And I mean all the affects... the lost days after. The lost weeks because I'm still feeling a bit shit on a Monday, and convincing myself when I didn't start on Monday to start again next week. The enticement of another fun night out on a Friday or Saturday, and for the cycle to start again.

The intent is there. But with alcohol, it's always pushed ahead to tomorrow, or the day after, or next week. The actual doing never arrives. Or may arrive but is never permanent. Alcohol has a way of sabotaging you, and pushes it out into the future again. Tomorrow. Next week. 

I'm done. I'm done letting alcohol reschedule my intentions to some day in the future. I want them now.

So no, with alcohol I probably wouldn't complete a 70.3 or an ironman. Maybe I could complete it but it wouldn't be enjoyable. It would be made painful by the booze and the hangovers. The struggling through training on the morning after. The struggling through the eent because I haven't followed through on all the training I should have done.



In a way, he was telling me I was wrong. Wrong for making a decision to take a year off alcohol. Wrong for following through with it. Wrong for missing out on 

So what will I be able to show? How about the confidence, and at ease with myself to go out with friends and not feel the need to drink alcohol.

> But if you *expect this criticism in advance*, and *take pride in your stance*, you can bash on with a smile, being who you want to be.

> Then every time they say you’re wrong, that’s a sign you’re doing it right.


I want to write a blog post on  based on this post: https://sivers.org/wrong and not drinking. About the reactions I get from people (pulled from my one-year-no-alcohol post on my desktop). And then quoting: "Then every time they say you’re wrong, that’s a sign you’re doing it right."

It would also be good to write a book about what you've achieved by not drinking. The question Dewi asked the other night "what will you have achieved at the end of the year?" To which I replied "A 1/2 ironman." "You wouldn't have achieved that if you had been drinking?" Well no. I probably wouldn't have. I've been drinking for 22+ years, and I've never done anything like that. List all the books I've read this year. And look at what you're accomplishing... what is that? Another big night out where you lose your keys and jacket? The money you spend (waste). I'm okay with missing out on the massive nights. In fact, I don't see it as missing out, because in place of those I get amazing mornings, books, clear head, clarity. etc.



Monday 8th January 2018
Yesterday when Sarah and Adam found out that I'd given up alcohol for a year they were shocked. The look on Sarah's face was utter disbelief. "How could anyone even contemplate giving up alcohol for such a long period of time?"

Why is it such unfathomable thing to do? Why does alcohol have such a hold over our society? Am I really out of my mind for attempting this? Is everyone else right... alcohol is not such a big thing. It's there to be enjoyed. A staple at any social occasion. A must? I guess my thought process is... isn't it possible to learn to enjoy social events without a drink in your hand? This is what I want to discover. Yesterday when Sarah and Adam came around I certainly didn't need a drink. When people come around during the day for a cup of coffee, why isn't alcohol on the menu? Is it only certain times of day that it's respectable to offer alcoholic beverages?

I've written the reasons for why I'm giving up alcohol in my journal, sometime around 31st December 2017 - 4th January 2018.

I've read 'The Happier Hour', a book about a women's journey to sobriety. I still have a lot of reading and research to do. I think learning about sobriety through other people's stories, research into the history of alcohol, the effects on our bodies... will greatly improve my chances of completing my year long challenge, and then inspire me to continue it for the rest of my life.

Thursday 11th January 2018 

I had a down evening last night. The Gareth, Adam, Dewi and Ben went ahead and booked the ski trip to Chattel, from a Wednesday to Saturday. I had said I was out if it was Wednesday leaving, as it would mean taking two days off work, plus having to work from home on Wednesday and leaving the house at 3pm. However another reason I opted out was because of how boozy the trip would have been. Just imagine... get to the airport, beers. Arrive, find some beers for the journey to Chatel. Arrive at the apartment, dump the gear and go out for beers, or stay in and get on it. The skiing would be great, but the booze in between would be tough to handle. I'd be the odd one out for sure, and I'm not sure I'd be ready to handle it in my journey with no alcohol.

This morning I was down a bit again. I started wondering whether it was all worth it. It's not that I really want to drink, but living in a society where drink is such a central focus is going to be hard work. I slept amazingly. I was woken by the sound of the floorboards creaking as the heating clicked in at 6:40. I got through the morning routine with the kids and then ran into work. The run did the world of good. The endorphins (or whatever) started pulsing through by body and my brain, and I started to think of making the most of the year. What can I achieve with all the extra days and energy I'll have not drinking. Smashing the conveyancing system, or some other side project. Getting super fit and smashing a 10k in sub 40 minutes... sub 38 minutes even. Achieving all of the calisthenics movements in the Thenics app I downloaded. Developing a close bunch of friends that don't drink, or don't drink as the primary means of socialising. I'm going to spend some time tonight brainstorming all the things I'd like to accomplish this year, things that make me happy and I find fun to do. Bring it on 2018!

Oh, and when you're feeling down... just get up and go for a run! Run motherf...er, run!

Tuesday 16th January 2018

I've been starting to feel at ease with my decision of late. I feel more confident in general. I know that I can't rely on being intoxicated to be confident... this is it, I am who I am, and if I can't talk to someone in my current state, or do something that scares me, then I'll never be able to talk to them or do whatever it is. Just knowing that tends to force me to do it anyway. I am who I am, and this is me, and I'm okay with that. It sounds counter-intuitive, but that's how I'm feeling. I'm even starting to think if the year goes well, I won't ever drink again. Why would I? If I learn to enjoy myself without needing a drink, why would I get back into that world? Damaging my ability to function properly.

I haven't noticed any side effects of not drinking as yet. I'm kind of hoping that I'll start to experience a profound upturn in my abilities... like my ability to remember things, my cognitive abilities etc. Nothing as yet.

I haven't been truly tested as yet. I haven't been to any social gathering that involves drinking, so I guess I can't get too confident with myself. However I did buy my flight to Genevea to go skiing with Dewi, Adam, Ben and G. That trip is going to be a test in itself, however I'm feeling pretty confident I'll be okay. The days will be fine... I'll be out boarding, and hopefully I won't have lost much of my ability (and hopefully I can even outshine Dewi). Then the afternoons will be in the spa and sauna. And in the evenings... well, I'll focus on the food, I'll contribute to the conversations the way I usually do with that group (quietly - certain personalities tend to dominate the conversation).
So what have I learned? Well, I've been pondering giving up alcohol for a couple of months now (I think - I'll have to find my first journal entry about it). At first the idea of not drinking again for the rest of my life seemed like an unattainable, undesirable, totally ludicrous idea. Can't you simply control your consumption better? Instead of drinking and drinking all night, just have one or two. Instead of drinking during the week, only drink on weekends. The problem is there is always pressure. If you say you're only having a couple, there's pressure to have more... "Oh, you're such a lightweight. Live a little." I've tried every strategy under the sun, and none of them ever stick. There's always pressure there, and inevitably you end up caving in on whatever rule you set yourself. But tow things have come out of my decision to stop:
 - The peer pressure is effectively removed - When you announce "I don't drink" (for a year), people tend to accept it and drop it. They question why you're doing such a stupid thing, and seem genuinely interested to know why, but they don't badger you to have one. 
 - The fear of not drinking that I initially had when I first thought of taking a year off is gone. Now it doesn't seem so bad at all. I understand how people's initial reaction is that it is completely unfathomable... how on earth could you possibly give up drinkingfor such a long period of time... and why would you want to? I understand that, because it's the same reaction/thought that I had. But now that I've thought about it, read about it, pondered it... it seems totally achievable.  

Friday 26th January 2018

Out for drinks at lunch. Had 1/2 pint coke. Few jokes flung my way. Feeling a little down on the way back to the office. But then Damo texted and said he was inspired by me and doing the same. The world works in mysterious ways!

Thursday 1st February 2018

I'm going to use this as my training diary also. Or maybe I should create a page on my blog where I list my training, and only my training. To decide...

Today: Thenics planche workout #1. Run to and from work. Really need to get :wq

