---
layout: post
title:  "Deleting WhatsApp"
permalink: /deleting-whatsapp
---

This week I deleted WhatsApp. I didn't just uninstall it from my phone, leaving my account open to be accessed at some later date. I completely, irreversibly deleted my account and everything that goes with it; every message and group message, every photo and video. It feels good to be done with it, to finally pull the trigger on something I've been stewing over for some time.

Because Facebook are profiting from my data, planning to show personalised 

Because it's something else to manage. To decide when I want notifications, and when I don't.

Because it's another 
I'm not too bothered about the privacy aspect of WhatsApp, as I'm sure Facebook don't want another Cambridge Analytica on their hands. And it's not like I'm doing anything that I want to hide. I'm more concerned with my information being used for personalised ads. I don't want another company, least of all Facebook, to be altering my reality wilst in the process profiting from my data, If Facebook's plans are to show short personalised textual ads in WhatsApp, I don't want a bar of it. I work hard to remove as many of these avenues as I possibly can. If you're not paying for the product. I've become sensitive to what's put under my nose, people, companies trying to make a profit from me. I hate getting on Amazon for the sheer number of ads, "Suggestions for you" that are jammed under my nose.

It's another app through which to communicate means more to manage, and more decisions to make. "What should we use to chat? WhatsApp? FaceTime? Something else?" You end talking to the same person across several apps, having to jump between them to piece things together, or find the address or phone number you're looking for. I don't want to have to make these decisions, . I want there to be one sane default. With another app installed you have to manage notifications, groups, settings... all that stuff that sucks time fromm my life. SMS does a fine job for text based communication... and everyone's got it. You don't have to convince anyone to install this app or that app to converse. Like email is all the tool I need for longerf form communication. Same goes for phone calls. I'm happier to pay a little more for a phone plan that includes additional minutes or international calls than to try and juggle five different platforms for all the people I want to talk to, because they're all on something different. And there's Telegram or Signal if you really need them. Open source alternatives not controlled by a central organisation with a history of data breaches.

One of the reasons why it took so long to delete WhatsApp from my life was the fear of missing out, just as it was when I deleted Facebook. You'd think I'd have learned my lesson. Because the majority of my friends and family are/were on WhatsApp there was a real fear I would be missing out on some great conversations, or plans for an event or get together. And maybe I am and have by removing it. But there are also positives to not being included. I get to miss out on the 95% of shit that flies through there. The distracting group chats that you feel compelled to check in on a regular basis. By removing the source of these distractions you're effectively putting in place a really good filter to filter out the non-essential. If there's something really important people need to get a hold of you for, or an event they want to include you in, then they'll find a way to reach you. And then you're not missing out on the important stuff.

People's expectations change. When you change from checking your email often to only doing so once per week, it might take a little while people adjust. Either that or they really don't care. Same goes for Facebook or any other social media platform. You can only assume the same goes for communication tools. It's not like I'm making myself completely unreachable. I'm just limiting the number of channels through which I can be reached. I'm putting up filters everywhere to block the superfluous and unessential so there's more time and focus for the essential.

I'm not exactly sure when I first started using WhatsApp, but being a recovering early-adopter I imagine it was fairly early on. No doubt I convinced all my friends and family to get on it too, so to those people I coerced into using it, I apologise! It was about the time I deleted my Facebook account that I started thinking I want nothing to do with Facebook, or any other social media service or platform. When I suggested to good, technical superstart friend of mine that we chat or call over WhatsApp his response was "What, you still use that Facebook spyware?!" 

So there we are, I'm no longer on WhatsApp. If you need to get The more I remove from my life, the less I realise I need. The happier I am with less. The end result drives more of a want to remove stuff from my life that doesn't scream out it's essential.
